---
layout: post
title: "purple"
date: 2026-06-26 12:05:00
categories: music pop-culture criticism
tags: [olivia-rodrigo, ylpsfagsil, lyrics, song-analysis, codependency, enmeshment, relationship-conflict]
---

Part of the ongoing album notes in [`You Look Pretty Sad For A Girl So In Love — Raw Thoughts`]({% post_url 2026-06-15-YLPSFAGSIL-RAW-THROUGHTS %}).

> Now a toothbrush
> A coat and pair of shoes all come in doubles (Doubles, doubles, doubles)
> And we fight
> Over who I'm hanging out with like a real couple (Couple, couple, couple, couple)

I'm intrigued by her line, "we fight ... like a real couple". Its interesting that a real relationship requires fighting. Its a characterization I've heard before and its a strange condition to validate a relationship, you must fight.

Additionally, the topic of the fight is over who she is hanging out with. This is in contrast to `my way` in which the fight really seemed to be about who her partner was hanging out with, or at least who was trying to hang out with him.

> It's a small world (It's a small world)
> When it only can revolve around us two
> It's crazy (It's crazy)
> I had big dreams 'til I tied myself to you
> Now I'm all-consumed

This verse contains one of the sadder lines (to me anyway) that '[she] had big dreams 'til I tied myself to you`.  The wording, to tie herself to them is consistent with the music video imagery and the unraveled tour. She is unraveled because she is no longer tied to this other person.  Its also hella sad that her world is small and that she thinks it can only revolve around them as a couple. Again, another preconception that a "real" relationship is some how exclusive.

> Melt with you 'til it all turns black
> Are we so in love? Are we too attached?
> Melt with you 'til it all turns black
> When you smooth it out, but it feels too flat
> Melt with you 'til it all turns black
> When you get so close and you can't go back
> Melt with you 'til it all turns black
> Melt with you 'til it just feels sad

The final refrain turns the song to end on a sad note. The core conceit of the song was that they were joinging their red and blue and she was seeing in purple. Here at then end of the song, she is melting till it all turns black.

Given the asthetics and inspiration of the album, melt with you seems like a direct allusion to 'I Melt with You' by `Modern English`. This is reinforced by the fact that they say "I'll stop the world and melt with you" while Olivia sings "And I melt with you, your red and my blue, Now I see the world in purple, purple" -- seemingly a direct reference to those lyrics. That song takes a decidedly more optimistic and romantic tone. Purple is the opposite to this, things are getting worse from the start of the song until everything ends up black and sad.
