---
layout: post
title: "Honeybee 🐝"
date: 2026-06-17
categories: music pop-culture criticism
tags: [olivia-rodrigo, honeybee, single-analysis, lyrics, song-analysis]
---

Lets keep going. Initial thoughts on Honeybee.

Verse 1:

> So I guess that it's true
> Time can heal even the worst of wounds
> And the clichés I knew
> Seemed so commonplace when I saw you
> Let's just walk in the dark
> Hop the fence in the park
> Baby boy, honeybee
> God, I love the way you look at me

This seems to be continuing with a theme of not being able to express her feelings. In `Stupd Song` she says she wants them more than any stupid song could ever say. Here I interpret the phrase `And the cliches I knew seemed so commonplace when I saw you` to mean that when she meets this person, cliche was all she could reach for to express her feelings, phrases which banal constantly appeared in her language or thoughts.  She wanted to express her feelings but was overwhelmed by the banal ideas and instead, just wants to walk in the park.

Chorus:

> And it's too hard to describe this
> In a way that feels honest
> But even when I'm quiet
> I love you, baby, I promise
> And I hope I never see what your face looks like going
> A face I swear that I could spend my whole life knowing
> Herе's to hoping

She confirms this in the chorus by literally saying she can't describe it. She reassures this person, just because she is not constantly using cliches, she is still in love, the silence is because of an inability to express and not the absence of feeling.

Interesting that in the verse she is going for a walk in the dark and here she says "And I hope I never see what your face looks like going". She and this person are in the dark, she literally cannot see their face. The scene is quite and dark and Olivia is wishing she never sees them leave. Perhaps the walk in the dark is to hide the truth from herself. There is like a layer of self deception here.

> Pick me up, walk me home
> And it feels likе God threw me a bone
> Sticky sweet, tangerine
> Would you sit and keep me company?
> In the dark, I'm not scared
> I just reach and you're right there
> Shooting stars, racing cars
> Everything I own just feels like ours

In this Olivia seems to turn on that. She says in the dark shes not scared, she can just reach out and find them.  In the light she is scared, the silence and the darkness is a comfort, she doesn't need to see their face leaving.

Olivia does love her car imagery. 